because of the weather it's just tough
to get there those gates is set to open
in about 15 minutes meantime new at 5:30
we are getting a look inside the future
home of the Pens the Consol Energy Arena
well open later this year but we are
taking you behind the scenes tonight
channel 11's Todd McDermott shows us how
construction is coming along
construction began with a bed after
picking up the pieces of the old st.
Francis Hospital the Penguins broke
ground on a new home now after two years
of construction that seemed to fly by
that's all energy center has taken shape
it is just across center Avenue from the
old igloo but it's a world apart and
we're giving you an inside look at the
work going on behind its glittering
glass facade the centerpiece is the
biggest single slab of concrete you'll
ever see
200 by 85 foot rates can't have any seen
that to be perfectly level it's the
foundation for a perfect ice surface the
job is so important
NHL officials oversaw the workers who
poured and perfected that concrete all
day and night
the Penguins - around that rate with
18,000 87 seats that number should be -
captain Sidney Crosby so is the number
of Suites 66 for Hall of Famer and owner
Mario Lemieux the seats aren't in yet
and suites are just empty rooms with
unpainted walls but you could already
tell what it'll be like in this building
no more bumping or squeezing by fellow
fans of the crowded concourses
it'll be an easier walk to the
concession stands and bathrooms the main
concourse overlooks the arena entries
given the place in every field it also
overlooks the ice a big change from the
current set up fans walking up the hill
from downtown will pass through
turnstiles
into a large atrium the ones that go up
the escalators will have a great view of
the downtown skyline and what's
currently the oldest and smallest arena
in the NHL everything about the Consol
Energy Center is designed to be bigger
and better 300,000 more square feet of
space 1,100 more seats for hockey an HD
video screen and a food court with a
view of the ice there are still several
months of work ahead on the 321 million
dollars state-of-the-art building but
it's still on track for the Penguins to
call it home for the start of next
season in October Todd McDermott she had
all other news nice-lookin song will be
the first LEED Gold certified arena in
the NHL opened back in 1961 made history
from day one the 22 million dollar
facility was built for the civic Light
Opera an architectural breakthrough of
the time it had the first retractable
roof ever put on a stadium that you can
see Pittsburgh's other football team the
gladiators playing there in an outdoor
game inside the arena the arena hosted
huge events from the Beatles in 1964 -
many exciting hockey playoff battles 3
Stanley Cup championship teams there's
still a lot of debate about what will
happen with the old arena was Consol
Energy Center opens history there's no
question now